so when I first started watching YouTube
my favorite kind of video to watch years
ago was transformation videos and videos
on fitness and nutrition and health and
what I eat in a day and all of those
really fitness II find videos with girls
who I felt like you know I could aspire
to be I just thought they were amazing
the only thing now looking back and the
problem that I have it it today is that
it is so hard to tell who is legit from
who is not better like the word right so
today I thought we could do a little
sit-down Shh hat on how to trust an
influencer or a blogger or health coach
how to figure out who's legit who to
take health advice from and who just to
watch for entertainment purposes so I
wrote a little list of things that can
help you kind of be more aware of what
is good advice and what might be good
tools into versus things that are just
not a good idea to follow or kind of
like those read major red flags when
you're following someone to look out for
so I'd also be really curious to know
before we jump into this video from you
guys like what are your favorite kinds
of things to watch on YouTube like what
are you guys watching these days what do
you like to consume like when you go to
YouTube what do you type in the search
bar when you look for and what kind of
videos you like following I like did you
like blogs you like what I eat in a day
is I just be curious to hear what our
community is really into as well okay so
the very first and probably most obvious
tip that I have for this video is just
check their certifications
so I'm sure that you guys already know
this but check the certifications of the
person that you're following if you are
planning on taking their advice anyone
that is giving away health advice
nutrition or fitness
I should have certification from an
accredited institution such as the
National Academy of Sports Medicine or
ace or if it's nutrition precision
nutrition there are a bunch of
Integrative just make sure just look
them up like see if they have a website
I would google their name see if it's in
their bio on our YouTube channel or a
bio on our Instagram handle or send them
a DM I mean that's the last resort but
just make sure they have some kind of
education and that they're really know
what they're talking about
of course there a lot there are lots of
certified individuals that have
literally no idea what they're talking
about still just because they might not
have experience yet or they might not be
following current research but a good
rule of thumb it's just always check and
see okay so you don't have any actual
formal education on this topic or are
they just blogging about their own
personal experience which can be so
different from person to person from
their understanding what their
certification gives them the ability to
teach is important too so for example
I'm really careful about this I am a
certified personal trainer I'm also a
certified nutritionist and I know that
the scope of my nutrition coaching is
limited right so I'm not a medical
doctor and I'm never going to be able to
diagnose or treat or you know give
advice that goes out of the scope of
just general health information you know
I can work with healthy individuals on
nutrition and their diet and digestion
these types of things but I can't work
with someone say for example who has a
diagnosed disorder or say they have an
eating disorder or say they have
something else in anything you know PCOS
whatever
I cannot say let me treat your PCOS
through food that's definitely not my
realm that is also why in my programs we
have a registered dietician on our staff
so that we can take that team up
and share the work and combat it with
two different perspectives two different
brands and so that if someone does have
a medical concern it can be addressed
you know legally and properly and give
them the best help they can get with
someone like a doctor who really knows
what they're doing so after you check
their certification just make sure that
you check what their scope of work is
and if they are acting and giving advice
within the scope of their ability okay
now begins a very long list of red flags
I don't know I put the excitation marks
it's just plain red flags things that
just hmm like you see it and if you're a
health coach or you're like if you're in
the industry you're just like oh my gosh
I really hope someone doesn't follow
that advice because it's not gonna lead
you down a good path so I have a long
list of red flags that we're going to go
through right now
the biggest one hands down is coaches
promising quick fixes short-term
solutions like magical answers to things
like growing a booty like a four week
booty program like yes you can work your
butt for four weeks and you know
stimulate muscle growth and get stronger
but you're not gonna have a bubble butt
in four weeks right that type of muscle
building takes years to have like that
you know we know what I'm time out those
pictures you see on the Instagram those
women have been lifting for years and if
they tell you otherwise they're straight
up line to it with the exception of
women who just genetically do have more
fat in that area or just have larger
bump like that that's the only exception
so anyone promising really quick results
really fast like you're gonna lose 40
pounds in one month that would be way
done safe to do I'm not even sure it can
be done health in a healthy way I know
it can't be done in a healthy way but
I'm not sure I can be done period in a
way
kill you like that would just be an
insane rate of fat loss or weight loss
feather so anything that's telling you
you can achieve a lot in a short period
of time is going to be giving you
recommendations that are not only unsafe
but will set you up for a really hard
time coming back from it or maintaining
that result later so either it's like
really restrictive dieting color low
calorie intake or high amounts of cardio
probably both if they're promising like
a really big result so just red flags
are quick results I know we're like a
quick you know gratification world now
we want things now but with your help
you deserve to really put the time and
effort into a long term strategy that
will last the rest of your life and make
you feel good from the inside out not
like a weight loss tale that promises to
lose belly fat by tomorrow or a detox
key that does the same thing or says
that you're not going to be bloated
anymore a lot of these promises I mean
they can just make claims they don't
have to be approved by the FDA people
can say whatever they want so just let
let your brain like that little voice in
your head that's like this sounds
amazing but then the little voice behind
that that's like this sounds like a scam
like listen to the scam because it is
straight-up a scam okay another huge red
flag for me at least it might not mean
that there are completely unqualified
but it should be like a sign you should
look like dig deeper if they are pushing
tons of products tons of supplements and
like they say you need these supplements
to get results first of all you don't
need any supplements BCAAs pre-workout
protein supplements you don't need these
to get a good result you can get
actually amazing results without adding
tons of products to your regimen and
typically when you see and this is just
like a little kind of like industry
secret for you guys
when I mean assignment secret but when
you see trainers or nutritionist pushing
we're health coaches or influencers
bloggers pushing products they're
usually sponsored even sometimes if they
don't say it they're using affiliate
links so if you purchase using their
link they get a small that you know
commission from that and so they have a
reason and incentive to push products on
you um we see this a lot with like the
detox teas luckily Instagram banned
those teas thank God but you still see
it with like supplements even really
really really accredited you know
professional dietitians even some of
them will really push supplements and
they it's a part of their income
you know like pushing the supplements
and the pills gets them a part of their
you know part of their revenue is coming
from working then partnering with these
companies so just make sure if you see
that they're pushing a lot of product
ask them like what the relationship is
with the product do they get you know
Commission for promoting the product
it's just good to know usually they
shouldn't disclose it but a lot of times
they don't they're just like swept up
here you go oh like you know check this
out and they'll say like oh I really use
this in real life but they're being paid
a lot of money typically to push these
products and so there's like you know
it's not that truthful so it's not
always wrong sometimes you know there's
a reason for certain supplements and you
should consult with your doctor as well
with this but it's just like an extra
little okay I see
they're doing this let me just dig a
little deeper and see if it's if they're
legit or they're just like really
pushing this on me for you know not for
my benefit but for their pockets guys
this what's too so long
okay so next I won't make them video too
long but next so I think anyone who
can't really teach you or educate you as
they're helping you like if they're just
not educating you at all on your body
that's a red flag it might mean that
they don't understand it themselves also
if they can't explain things in simple
terms if they're using complicated
language like when I talked to you guys
about the body I'm not saying like this
superspinatus and all you know what I
mean like I'm not telling I'm not saying
words that I know you that the common
person doesn't know even if I know them
because I'm not trying to like flex for
you guys I just want you guys to learn
about your body honestly and if I say a
bunch of words that are technical that
mean nothing to you won't learn and then
that doesn't benefit me it doesn't
benefit you so this is actually really
common with really new trainers or like
new people are like new to the scene
they'll use a lot of fancy words they
use like certain botany and are like
they'll call out muscle groups that are
not like glutes something you definitely
know but like smaller muscles or go try
to like flex their knowledge that's
usually a sign that they just like need
more years of experience and you know
they're trying to appear like really
intelligent or educated all that stuff
is bogus they should be able to explain
it to you like really simply and break
it down and educate you about your body
as they're teaching you whatever they're
teaching I also realized as I'm doing
this video I sound so critical of other
people I'm not I'm just I want you guys
to be empowered to know who to trust
online and you not to there was just
like so many voices online now I and I
always encourage you guys follow a
variety of sources like don't just
follow me I know you don't but like
follow as you know several different
people that appeal to you that teach a
lifestyle that
you know or you have that yeah how my
lifestyle that you want to live and you
always get your source of information
from various vetted places not just one
place I'm not like some goddess is
perfect I'm just pulling out the things
that hopefully you could help to use to
figure out if you should trust you know
some bloggers you've been following for
a while with health information along
with that coaches who are not like
undergoing continuing education that's a
problem so every certification requires
that you do courses to maintain your
certification and you maintain an active
status for the certification so for
example for me I hold two certifications
I have to do a certain number of credits
it's like being college / every two
years to keep my active status so that's
usually it's usually other courses
current reading current research and
taking tests to report that you
understood it or you know you actually
did the work that type of thing is
really important sometimes actually a
lot of times you'll see people will get
their certifications and then they don't
renew it and they say that they're still
certified it's just because they didn't
want to do the continuing education and
I mean that's really important it's
really important to like always be
leveling up I always be learning I feel
like I'm never gonna know enough about
this topic I'm really passionate about
it and also there's always new research
coming out right like every year every
month there's new studies new research
to digest and you want to be working
with someone who's like has a pulse on
that and like no one knows everything
but if they are doing their continuing
education they're like reading up on
things they're working with other really
qualified individuals and
from then then then you can be like
pretty confident that they're going to
you know be not just giving you like a
framework or a process that worked for
them but they're really using the
current research and a really educated
on it okay a couple other fast ones
coaches that say there's like only one
way to achieve a goal and it's their way
that's not good there are so many ways
to achieve a goal that's why I also
appetit power we teach intuitive eating
and we teach macros we teach different
proven methods and we have our one
method as well but there are multiple
ways to get to the same path there's no
one right way and people are different
so anyone who's like there's only one
way it's cardio and dieting or hip
workouts like they don't know what
they're talking about
everyone knows you know that there's
multiple ways to achieve the same goal
when it comes to your health other quick
ones any trainer or person that says
like it's like high intensity everything
like all I hit workouts that's like a
and coaches that don't walk their own
talk or can't really show you that
they're doing what they're telling you
to do I think is problematic and then I
also think coaches I think this goes
with maybe that being said but coaches
who body shame you or use derogatory
words obviously like not cool not cool
at all I think lastly like the most
important thing is that your values
align with them and that they are not
just teaching from their own personal
experience you see a lot as you see this
law on Instagram and YouTube girls
saying like here's how I lost X amount
of weight and then they say what worked
for them and it's really tempting to
follow what they did but the reality is
you're a totally different person and
your metabolism is in a different place
and you're doing
different thing and it might not work
for you to follow what they're doing and
also might not be healthy for you in the
long term to do it either so just making
sure like they are not just giving you
their own personal journey they're also
if you're going to take their advice
they also know what actually works for
most people or they have experience
working with a huge range of people so
that they're not just giving you like
this is the only thing I've ever tried
and it worked for me so it has to work
for you like that's not good right you
want someone to know why something works
what it does and why why it might not
work the way it should for certain
individuals whatever I'm blabbering but
you know what I'm saying I think lastly
if you really can't find that much about
them but you really love what they're
putting out and you're like I don't know
if I should trust them just send them
idea maybe start to build a relationship
with them if you can and see you know
ask them what their background is
usually the stuff is available online so
you don't have to do it but you can
always see if you get a response and if
you know you build a rapport maybe they
can tell you more about their training
especially they have fewer followers
they'll respond
obviously it's harder when an influencer
has like a million followers to get them
to a five-year DM but especially also
now if I think like companies like Jim
shark which I love Jim shark companies
like women's best these companies the
way they scale their businesses is by
hiring athletes to represent their
product which is really smart but none
of I'm pretty sure very few of their
athletes are actually certified so a lot
of our role models might not be in the
best position to give advice
however it's I think I mean these were
these are and where the videos that I
still love to watch watch the most so
I'm not smashing them like I adore those
videos I adore that content honestly
watching and like watching all of that
content
growing up the vlogging and the
lifestyle stuff is what you know part of
why I wanted to create sonics to share
healthy lifestyle
guys so I'm not smashing it I'm just
saying you know be careful because there
are a lot of people out there sharing
healthy lifestyle stuff and it might not
all be good for you or healthy for you
anyways you guys I hope that you like
this video I hope that it helped you
kind of figure out what is a red flag
when you're new to following someone or
trying to figure out if you should
follow follow their advice let me know
in the comments what it's like a red
flag for you when you're following a new
person what kind of is just like whoa
that's not they you know that's not
legit let me know I'm just curious hear
what you guys have to say and I hope you
enjoy this video learn something and
remember to give this video a like if
you enjoyed it and subscribe for more
content tailored to women and I will see
you guys next week
[Music]